---
date: 2020-05-16
layout: post
author: Ted
title: PAFL - I
tags: poker-as-an-analogy-for-life
---
I have considered starting a separate blog entitled Poker as an Analogy for Life. My mind is struck by one seemingly every day while playing. If this many ideas came to me about poker strategy itself, the accounts would very full. Instead, I am _blessed_ with thoughts regarding the connection this seemingly obscure and fictional game has to wider-life.

Poker as an Analogy for Life - 1: A wholly different mindset

I am currently 'taking a shot'. I have set aside a portion of my winnings and am now using that portion to play higher stakes games. The hope is that the shot 'sticks', meaning the money you set aside grows and the higher stakes game becomes your new main game. This happens occasionally, but more often than not the shot fails. Either the amount of money you set aside was not large enough to withstand the natural ups and downs of poker or your skills were not sufficient to win at the higher stakes game.  

If you are in the proper mindset while 'taking a shot' you notice how very different that mindset is to your regular playing mindset.

1. You want to win more than you normally do. Failed shots are a big disappointment because you only get a few opportunities each year and the difference in earning potential between a failed and successful shot is very large. This creates an intense interest and focus on the game. Mental resources you forgot that you had are conjured seemingly out of nowhere. You get a small taste of Bradly Cooper from Limitless.  
2. You are playing with house money. The money you have set aside for a shot has been written off before you play your first hand. When this is the case you can fully focus on your playing to the best of your ability without a more beneath the surface portion of your mind being wrapped up with the results.

The analogy here is that you are given 'shots' in life the same way we are in poker. And the things we care about are disproportionately determined by the outcomes. We are also all playing on 'house money' all the time. From the sperm race to the time you narrowly avoided that car accident, and everything in-between, you were not likely to make it this far into life.

The conditions are all here, in real life, to embody this wholly different mindset more often than might be apparent.
