---
date: 2020-04-16
layout: post
author: Ted
title: April 16 - 2020 edition
tags: april-16
---
Today is the day that I _should have_ died. April 16th, 2017.

---

I suppose that if I plan on writing this blog for years and years to come, I should start with the story. It was a story that I was too embarrassed to tell until years afterwards - having to wait until it dropped its large portion of shame.

Planning tomorrow's drive - the ten hours from Virginia to Michigan - I took a sleep aid and drifted off to sleep with the plan of an early start.

Off to a good start. My brother and I closed up the cottage and we were on the road before sunrise; he was headed back to work and I was ready for a long day of radio, podcasts, and alone time on the road.

From the get-go I was abnormally drowsy. I rationalized that I was still just waking up so I cracked the window, turned the radio up, and carried on. Half and hour later, I was still really drowsy. Fuck it. Push on. Still eight hours to go. Can't stop now.

I wake up at halfway down an embankment on the interstate. Car shaking on the uneven ground. Still going fast. Never have I woken up so abruptly nor responded so quickly.

I realized I still had control of the car and eased on the breaks while calculating weather I should attempt to climb back up the embankment or just try to stop.

No cars behind me, wet grass, don't want to bottom-out at the trough of this slope, rough ground, but not horrible. This all equated to going for it.

And holy-shit it worked - we were back on pavement and wide-the-fuck awake.

To be continued (One year from today. If my great fortune continues)...  
