---
date: 2020-08-08
layout: post
author: Ted
title: Huberman
tags: podcast
---
A [podcast recommendation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SwQhKFMxmDY) for my reader(s) and my future self. A truly inspirational story that I can relate too (not a genius from a far off land) with a big empowering and important idea. This guy has one of my dream jobs. Anyway here is what I took away (in my own words):

1. What we are talking about when we are talking about learning is something called "brain plasticity" and it has two important components. One, urgent and focused work to let your mind/body know that what you are doing is important. And, two, recovery - after the work, recover by completely relaxing or sleeping. In this second stage is where the "brain changes" happen.
2. The mental states of "overwhelmed" and "anxious" are caused by a mismatch between your inner world (your mind/body) and the external world. If your inner world is relaxed, calm, and slow-moving while the external world is throwing a lot of stimulus at you, your mental state will be one of overwhelm. If your inner world is fast and energetic while the external world is slow-moving, your mental state will be one of anxiousness. This is helpful, because while changing the external world is tough going, you can always adjust your inner landscape to some degree or another. And when they are in harmony these poor mind-states will not appear (or so he says).
3. There are no shortcuts to high-performance and well-being. Both require a journey with discomfort and grappling. While I don't want to be David Goggins, he has tapped into something important that we all must learn. 
